23 ens beginners guide (#32)
kauri-io/Content: ENS/ens-beginners-guide.md

# ENS: Beginner's Guide

User experience is a key challenge when developing a dapp. Ethereum has complexities that should be hidden away to enable broad adoption. One such complexity, is an Ethereum address, it is long, unwieldy, and hard to remember.

> The Ethereum Name Service (ENS) is an incredibly useful tool for dapp developers. ENS is like DNS, in that it maps a memorable shortcut to an address. Using ENS we can map the friendly name `ethereum.eth` to the rather unfriendly `0xfB6916095ca1df60bB79Ce92cE3Ea74c37c5d359`. Subsequently, the friendly name can be used in-place of the address, making it easier to remember, and reducing the chance of errors. 

Reviewer: @darrenlangley Avoid the "weasel words" as they don't really add much, for example.

```suggestion
The Ethereum Name Service (ENS) is a useful tool for dapp developers. ENS is like DNS, in that it maps a memorable shortcut to an address. Using ENS we can map the friendly name `ethereum.eth` to the rather unfriendly `0xfB6916095ca1df60bB79Ce92cE3Ea74c37c5d359`. Subsequently, the friendly name can be used in-place of the address, making it easier to remember, and reducing the chance of errors. 
```

Reviewer: And I'm fussy with this kind of stuff, but it does help writing and reading in the long run, so also try removing passive voice as much as possible, so for example, instead of 

> Subsequently, the friendly name can be used in-place of the address, making it easier to remember, and reducing the chance of errors. 

Try

> Subsequently, you (or "we" doesn't matter) can use the friendly name in-place of the address, making it easier to remember, and reducing the chance of errors. 

Couple of other examples of this in the text, have a go a switching out a couple and I'll do final edits anyway.

Author: Have removed weasel word and reviewed text for passive voice.

An ENS name has a root name `ethereum.eth` which can contain sub-names like `wallet.ethereum.eth`. The root name is owned by whoever successfully bid for it in a [Vickrey auction](https://medium.com/the-ethereum-name-service/a-beginners-guide-to-buying-an-ens-domain-3ccac2bdc770 "Vickrey auction").

In fact, ENS doesn't just map to addresses. ENS is highly extensible and supports many types of mappings. The same friendly name can be mapped to multiple endpoints at the same time. 

> So the `ethereum.eth` name could point to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example the `ethereum.eth` name could point to:
```

Author: Updated

- A multisig wallet contract address
- Public encryption keys for secure communication
- Website content (via IPFS hash or multihash)

## Code Walkthrough

Many Ethereum libraries, including Web3.js now support ENS lookups out-of-the-box. Unfortunately using ENS is not as intuitive as the library documentation suggests; there are a number of things to look out for.

To demonstrate how to lookup ENS names we will write a simple Node.js command-line tool called `enslookup`. Given an ENS name as an argument it will query the ENS registry for information about that name.

### Prerequisites

First you will need to install Node.js and npm by following the install instructions on the [Node.js website](https://nodejs.org/ "Node.js").

> If you are not running a full mainnet Ethereum node, you will need to setup an Infura endpoint for connecting. This is easy to do - just sign up on the [infura.io](https://infura.io) website. Create a new project and copy the mainnet URL. It will be something like this: `mainnet.infura.io/v3/<your project id>`.

Reviewer: Future tense is another odd one to understand, this isn't really in the future, you're doing it now, so try:

```suggestion
If you are not running a full mainnet Ethereum node, you need to setup an Infura endpoint for connecting. This is easy to do - just sign up on the [infura.io](https://infura.io) website. Create a new project and copy the mainnet URL. It will be something like this: `mainnet.infura.io/v3/<your project id>`.
```

Author: Updated and reviewed text for more future tense

> Now set your Infura URL including `https://` at the beginning, as an environment variable. This will only set it for the current session so if you close your terminal window you will need to do it again.

Reviewer: And another example:

```suggestion
Now set your Infura URL including `https://` at the beginning, as an environment variable. This only sets it for the current session so if you close your terminal window you will need to do it again.
```

Author: Removed future tense

On Linux or macOS:
```shell
export INFURA_URL=https://mainnet.infura.io/v3/<your project id>
```

On Windows:
```bash
set INFURA_URL=https://mainnet.infura.io/v3/<your project id>
```

Create a new project directory called `enslookup` and change directory into it.

```bash
mkdir enslookup
cd enslookup
```

### Web3.js

> We will be using Web3.js to interact with the ENS registry. To install Web3.js use the Node.js package manager `npm`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are using Web3.js to interact with the ENS registry. To install Web3.js use the Node.js package manager `npm`.
```

Author: Removed future tense

```bash
chmod +x enslookup
```

Edit the file in your favorite editor - don't worry too much about the code here but it:
 - Allows the file to be executed by Node.js
 - Allows us to use Javascript async/await syntax
 - Gets the ENS name from the command's parameters
 - Checks that you have set the Infura URL environment variable

```js
#!/usr/bin/env node

(async () => {

    // get the ens name to lookup as the first argument to the command
    const [,,name] = process.argv;
    // bail if no name provided
    if(!name){
        console.error('No name provided for lookup\nUsage: enslookup <name>')
        return;
    }
    // bail if no infura url provided as environment variable
    if(!process.env.INFURA_URL){
        console.error(`Missing INFURA_URL environment variable`);
        return;
    }
    console.log(`Name:\t\t${name}`);

    // insert more cool stuff here

})();
```

Next, we will setup Web3.js to connect to Ethereum:

```js
// load web3 library
const Web3 = require('web3');

// connect to an Infura endpoint to connect to Ethereum (passed as Environment Variable)
// feel free to use your own mainnet node
const web3 = new Web3(process.env.INFURA_URL);
```

> Now, it is very tempting to jump right in and lookup an address using `web3.eth.ens.getAddress(EnsName)` but there is something important to consider first.

Reviewer: Another small example of a "weasel word", try:

```suggestion
Now, it is tempting to jump right in and lookup an address using `web3.eth.ens.getAddress(EnsName)` but there is something important to consider first.
```

Author: Removed
